Hey guys welcome back to the course.
One thing about entrepreneurs is you're very confident about your abilities and your business.
And when you start to put together detailed financial forecasts like financial models it might give
you a false sense of control.
Being able to accurately forecast something doesn't say anything about how you're actually going to
execute even the best executioners among us.
No back-I the kind that executes according to a plan.
We're still going to miss some things.
There will always be something that is going to be outside of her control.
So when it comes to forecasting costs this is why you should always factor in some contingency or padding
or fluffy pillows whatever you want to call it.
It's about adding some margin for error.
Now you don't want to peg the success of your entire venture on you and your team having to hit the
bullseye on every single metric all the time.
It's always good to attempt that but you may want to give yourself a little bit of wiggle room for the
unexpected things that are sure to happen.
Server costs might be higher than expected your marketing costs might be higher than expected growth
might be a little slower than expected.
So you want to have that margin for the minor bumps along the way that you're probably going to see.
So how do we model that out.
It's actually quite easy.
Okay let's start with some assumptions here.
Again let's say that you've already calculated the hosting costs.
Right now you're going to use a better method but for our purposes of illustrating contingency we're
going to use a simple posting cost calculation here.
Once we have that a simple way to add contingency is simply to add a pang of X percent.
So if we wanted to add a contingency of 10 percent then we'd just go 10 percent and then it's going
to be that 10 percent times the current calculated costs.
Right.
So then your revised hosting costs for user is going to be the cost that you calculated Plus the contingency
that is added onto it.
So that's the simple way.
Slightly more complicated but you know just as simple is to have contingency percentage that it is actually
changing over time.
Now why might you do something like this.
Well it may be that starting out you have more unknowns you have things that you just aren't as clear
about early on where you do need more of a contingency.
But over time maybe a year later after everything's kind of settled down you need less contingency you're
getting better with your forecasts your you know your costs a lot better so you don't need as much contingency.
Well if that's the case then we could do something like this where there's some starting contingency
value and ending contingency value.
And then how long it takes to get there.
Right.
So here what we did is we have the starting value which is just equal to that.
And then what we are doing is then we're going to take the max of which is this ending value right.
So we were going to keep reducing it from the starting value after that.
So we're going to start at hey it's equal to the previous And we're going to subtract the difference
here which is here is 5 minus 20 which is 15 percent divided by how long we want to space that out with
which is 12 months and then we're going to add that to the previous month so in that way that strips
tracks it incrementally over that number of months here.
Now the reason we take a max number here is because we want this to be the minimum.
So once we keep subtracting we don't want to go pass or be low this number.
So then that's why we take the max out of it because at some point if we keep subtracting is going to
get below 5 percent so when we take the max of whatever we calculated versus the minimum number that
we want to keep That's what this Max function does.
So it's kind of weird.
We want to make sure we want to ensure that this is the minimum then we're going to use the max.
We want to ensure some sort of a maximum then we use them in function.
So what we do we do that and when we copy and paste the formula across it calculates it out so that
by month 12 or 12 months later we have this stabilized flat rate of 5 percent.
So it doesn't keep going below that.
So then the contingency is going to be the contingency amount at that month times the hosting costs
of that month.
So as a percentage it's going to get lower and lower right.
But because the hosting cost is going up quite a bit the overall cost is still going to be increasing
quite a bit right.
We see that the overall continues is still going up but as a percentage it's getting smaller then your
final hosting cost the same you're hosting cost plus the contingency that you calculate.
So there you go.
There's two ways to do contingency.
Most of you this way is going to be good enough for some of you you may want to do it like this.